---
permalink: /handbook/
title: ""
---

## Handbook 

Welcome to the Moncla lab! This lab handbook is intended to give you an overview of how I think about running a scientific lab and expectations I have for myself and team members. 

### Research goals and ethics 
We are excited about RNA viruses and the ways that they evolve, transmit, and emerge in new host species. We are interesteed in these questions across a range of levels: how viruses evolve during replication and transmission within individuals, how new variation is generated and propagated along transmission chains, and how viruses are spread among global populations, communities, and host species. The primary tools that we use to answer these questions are computational, but we also do wet lab experiments to generate sequence data and to validate our computational findings. I believe that open science is both the right way to approach science, and is also the way of the future. Towards this end, a priority in the lab is to do reproducible science that is shared openly and freely to the public and the scientific community. This means that our projects, code, and protocols will be made available on github, our sequence data will be uploaded to public repositories, and that data that is ready for the world will be made available as preprints prior to publication. We will also use resources that are freely available and public whenever possible, and acknowledge individuals who have contributed data and software. It also means that we will strive to include the voices of groups and individuals who are impacted by our research, and whose perspective deserves to be part of our work. Although I find RNA viruses endlessly fascinating, it is crucial to remember that we study these viruses because they impact the lives of human beings, often with significant disparities across sociodemographic lines. It is our responsibility to ensure that the science we put forth into the world serves the goal of improving human health, without encouraging stigma or blame. 

### Lab goals and ethics 
Labs function best when individuals feel supported, rested, and happy. It is my goal to foster an inclusive environment in which individuals are able to work with others, contribute new ideas, receive criticism and feedback, and grow as scientists. It is my job to put the proper supports in place to make that happen. However, I also acknowledge that everyone is unique, and will likely require different things to thrive. What I ask of you is to tell me if something is not working for you. I will do my absolute best to accommodate your needs. If you or someone you know is experiencing harassment, please report it to me or to XXXX. I believe that there is no place in science for harassment or discrimination, regardless of how scientifically productive someone is, and that is non-negotiable. 

#### Working hours, vacation time, and sick days
I personally find working in a group setting to be a great way to learn from others and foster a sense of camaraderie that has helped me through times my science has proven challenging. However, I am also aware that many people are not like me, and may work better at home or during non-standard hours. It is my expectation that people are generally available during the hours of 10 to 3 pm, Monday through Friday. It is also my expectation that people physically come into work at least 3 days a week. Should you require a special accommodation, I am happy to discuss it to find a schedule that works well for you. That being said, I do not want to keep track of your hours, and will mostly be happy if you get your work done. 

I love vacation! I also really like doing things that are not science. I bake, hike, ski, play trumpet, and watch trashy movies with my partner, and it is really important to me that I maintain time in my life to enjoy activities outside of work. I wouldn't expect anything different from personnel in my lab, and absolutely expect you to take vacations and enjoy your life. I will not ask you to do weekend work, and won't expect you to respond to emails after work hours. I usually take about 4 weeks off per year in addition to standard, legal holidays, and hope personnel in my lab do the same. Please let me know when you will be out so that I can plan, but know that I expect you to take time off. 

We are an infectious disease lab, and there is no universe in which I would want you to come in if you are sick. If you are sick, please stay home and recover, and come back when you feel ready to do so. If you end up requiring a prolonged sick leave, let me know and we can discuss how to manage your responsibilities in the lab while you recover. 

#### Meetings and social activities 
Once our lab gets to a critical mass, we will have a once a week lab meeting. These meetings are there for group members to present their ongoing work, lead discussion of a cool paper or topic, or lead some other group activity that is relevant to the lab. Once a year, I will host a state of the lab meeting, where I will give updates on where the lab is going, and where we can strategize about how to improve lab function. 

Occasionally, we will have social events with the lab, like lab dinners or happy hours. Although it is my hope that people would enjoy attending these events, they are absolutely not required. However, if there is anything that I could do to make lab hangouts more accessible or appealing, please let me know. 
